=head1 Smolder Build System Design

The Smolder build system is responsible for compiling Smolder from source
into a form suitable for distribution and installation. It is based on
the build system of Krang (L<http://krang.sourceforge.net>). This document
describes the design of the build system.

=head2 Background

Smolder's first releases included binaries built for Fedora Core 3 on the
i686 platform. Binaries for all CPAN XS modules as well as
Apache/mod_perl are included in the distribution tar-ball.  The
installation system (C<smolder_install>) simply copies these binaries
into place, sets up the database and configures Smolder using
information provided by the user.  This system works very well,
provided you're running FC3 or a compatible system.

The goal of the build system is to produce pre-compiled packages for a
variety of platforms which will be installable via C<smolder_install>
the same way the original FC3 package works.  After this work
is complete future development may produce native packages (C<RPM>,
C<DEB>, etc.) as an alternative to C<smolder_install>.

This system will expect the target environment to include suitable versions
of Perl and MySQL prior to installation.

=head2 Design Considerations

The following factors are important to the success of the build
system.

=over 4

=item *

Perl

Each distribution must target a particular version of Perl.  This is
necessary for the correct operation of both compiled XS modules and
Apache/mod_perl.

=item * 

System Libraries

Each distribution will require certain system libraries, such as libgd.

=item * 

MySQL

Smolder depends on MySQL but does not include MySQL in its distribution.

=item *

Build Automation

It must be very easy to build a distribution for a supported platform.

=item * 

Build Testing

Automated testing against all supported platforms will be useful in
preventing broken releases. 

=item * 

Code Duplication

Although each platform will have certain peculiarities, much of the
process will be the same.  This is particular true for various
versions of a platform (FC1, FC2, FC3 for example).

=item *

Install-Time Activities

Aside from building binaries, some install-time activities vary
between platforms.  For example, the original distribution sets up
Smolder to start when the system boots by putting a link to C<smolder_ctl>
in F</etc/init.d>.  This may not be correct for all platforms.

=back

=head2 Architecture

=head3 Naming Conventions

Smolder distributions are created to work on a specific platform with a
specific version of Perl.  For example, typical distribution filenames
might be:

  smolder-1.101-FC3-perl5.6.1-i686-linux.tar.gz
  smolder-1.101-FC4-perl5.8.2-i686-linux.tar.gz

The build system will supply the distribution name (RH9, RH7.3, FC3, etc)
and Perl will provide the Perl version and architecture using:

  perl -MConfig -e 'printf "perl%d.%d.%d-%s",
                    (map { ord($_) } split("", $^V, 3)), $Config{archname}'

End-users must choose the distribution that matches their platform,
although C<smolder_install> will check to make sure they made the right
reasonable choice.

A special source distribution is made without building platform
binaries.  Users of this distribution will need to use the Smolder build
system to produce a distribution they can install.  The source
distribution will be named:

  smolder-1.101-src.tar.gz

=head3 Platform Files

Each supported platform must have a directory in the F<platforms/>
directory inside Smolder.  This directory will contain at least one
module, C<Platform.pm>, which is a sub-classes of L<Smolder::Platform>.
This module may actually be a sub-class of another platform's module:
ex. the platform module for FC3 could be based on the module for
FC1.

A F<README> file may also be present which will be copied as
"F<README.$Platform>" into compiled distributions.

=head2 Implementation

=head3 C<smolder_build>

To generate a build for a platform, the C<smolder_build> script will be
run with a single argument:

  smolder_build FC2

This will cause the build system to use the F<Platform.pm> module in
platform/FC2.  If all goes well the final line of output should
be something like:

   Build finished, created smolder-1.101-FC2-perl5.6.1-i686-linux.tar.gz

The build a distribution using a different version Perl, just run
C<smolder_build> using the desired C<perl>:

   perl5.8.3 smolder_build FC2

In general, building a distribution for a platform will only work on
the platform itself.  Automation using VMWare and Tinderbox may reduce
the work associated with building and testing on each platform.

=head3 Smolder::Platform

The L<Smolder::Platform> module will serve as a base-class for all
platform modules.  The following methods will be available for
overriding in sub-classes.  See the module documentation in
L<Smolder::Platform> for authoritative details.

=over

=item C<verify_dependencies()>

Makes sure all required dependencies are in place before starting the
build, and before beginning installation.  Smolder::Platform will
provide a way to know whether the system is being built or installed.

=item C<build_perl_module($src)>

Called to build a specific Perl module from the C<$src> file.  The
default implementation will simply use C<make install>, but platforms
can override this to provide special processing for difficult modules.

=item C<build_apache()>

Called to build Apache.  The default implementation will work the way
the current Makefile in F<src/Apache-MOD_PERL> works.

=item C<apache_build_parameters()>

Override to modify the parameters passed to Apache's C<configure>
script.  This should provide an easy way to fix Apache compilation on
most platforms.

=item C<build_modperl()>

Called to build Apache.  The default implementation will work the way
the current Makefile in F<src/Apache-MOD_PERL> works.

=item C<modperl_build_parameters()>

Override to modify the parameters passed to mod_perl's C<Makefile.PL>
script.  This should provide an easy way to fix mod_perl compilation
on most platforms.

=item C<finish_installation()>

Anything that needs to be done at the end of installation can be done
here.  This is where the Redhat based modules would add a link in
F</etc/init.d>, for example.

=item C<finish_upgrade()>

Anything that needs to be done at the end of an upgrade can be done
here.

=back

=head2 Questions

=over

=item * 

Do we need a F<platform.conf>?  This would be a configuration file
created during build (and possibly modified during installation)
collecting information about the platform.  Could be used at run-time
to find binaries like C<mysql>, C<tar>, etc.

=item *

Are there methods missing from the Smolder::Platform section that we'll
probably need?

=item *

Which platforms should we target for the first release?  FC3 and FC4
are easy enough for the current team (me). Maybe using SF's build farm
would help out with this.

=item *

What changes will be needed to smolder_makedist?

=back
