=head1 How to add a CPAN module to Smolder

This document describes how to add a new CPAN module to Smolder, or
update an existing one. You might need to add a CPAN module when
you're adding new functionality to Smolder. Updating an existing module
is usually done to fix bugs or add new functionality.

Follow these steps to add a new module:

=over

=item 1

First, collect two pieces of information about the module: its license
and what other modules it requires.  If the module does not have a
license, or the license does not allow free distribution do not add it
to Smolder. Ensure that any required modules are already in Smolder. 
You can do this by using the F<smolder_src_dependency_check> script.

    $] ./bin/smolder_src_dependency_check --file src/HTML-Template-2.7.tar.gz

    Test::More    => OK     (Found in CORE)
    Digest::MD5   => OK     (Found in Smolder lib)
    File::Spec    => OK     (Found in CORE)
    Carp          => OK?    (Found in Vendor lib)
    

If a required module is not found, follow this same process for adding
it to Smolder first.

=item 2

Copy the module distribution into the src/ directory of Smolder.  This
can be either a CVS checkout of Smolder or a source distribution (ex:
smolder-1.011-src.tar.gz).

=item 3

Attempt to rebuild Smolder:

  make build

If this completes successfully then the module is now installed into
Smolder. Run tests and commit your changes if everything passes.

=item 4

If step 4 failed you may need to modify
L<Smolder::Plaftorm>::build_perl_module() to successfully build the new
module. If the module asks any questions during build then you'll
need to modify the Expect calls to provide the appropriate answers.

=back
