=head1 NAME

Installing Smolder As a Developer

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The purpose of this document is to walk a user through the process of
installing a new Smolder instance.  It is assumed that the user who
installs this is (1) a knowledgable UNIX administrator, who (2) has
root access to the machine on which he is installing Smolder, and (3) he
has a basic understanding of what Smolder does and how it looks when it
is working.

Note: this probably won't work unless you're running on a supported
platform.  See F<docs/ops_install.pod> for the list of supported
platforms.

=head2 Smolder Install Steps

=over

=item 1

Create a user to own Smolder instance (as root)

   useradd <username>
   chmod +x ~<username>

=item 2

Check out Smolder from SVN. The repository is located at

    http://svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/smolder

And instructions on how to checkout a copy of the repository are
located at:

    https://sourceforge.net/svn/?group_id=161136

=item 3

Optionally, Upgrade/Install MySQL 4

You can find binaries for MySQL 4 here:

  http://www.mysql.com/downloads/mysql-4.0.html

Make sure you install the server, client, devel and shared packages,
if you're using RPMs.

This step is optional, because SQLite support is built-in. 

=item 4

Build Smolder

   bin/smolder_build

=item 5

Configure Smolder.  Edit F<conf/smolder.conf> to use the username you
created in step one as SmolderUser and SmolderGroup.

=item 6 

Build the Database.

   bin/smolder_createdb

=item 7

Run tests.

   bin/smolder_test

=item 8

Authorize user to start Smolder via SUDO (as root).  Add to F</etc/sudoers>:

   "username  ALL=(root)  NOPASSWD: $SMOLDER_ROOT/bin/*"

=item 9

Start Smolder

   bin/smolder_ctl start

=item 10

Now visit the server in a web browser.  If it works, you're done!

=back

