=head1 Porting Smolder

This document describes how to port Smolder to a new platform.  You'll
need to port Smolder if you want to run Smolder on a platform which isn't
supported.  See HREF[the installation instructions|ops_install.html]
for the list of supported platforms.

=head2 Getting Started

Every platform Smolder supports should have a directory inside the
F<platform/> directory.  For example, Redhat 7.3 has
F<platform/Redhat7_3>.  Create a directory for the new platform.

Next, you'll need to create a file called Platform.pm which contains
at least the following:

  package PLATFORM_NAME::Platform;
  use warnings;
  use strict;

  use base 'Smolder::Platform';

  1;

At this point you I<might> be done, particularly if your platform is
very similar to Fedora Linux (Smolder's home platform).  To find out,
try to build Smolder:

  bin/krang_build PLATFORM_NAME

If that worked, build a distribution:

  bin/krang_makedist

Now you can take that distribution and install it as usual:

  tar zxvf krang-...tar.gz
  cd krang-...
  bin/krang_install ...

If that worked, try running the test suite:

  cd /path/to/krang
  make test

If all tests pass, you're done!

=head2 Solving Problems

It's quite likely that one of the steps described above didn't work.
If so, it's time to write some code.

=head3 Fixing the Build

If Smolder failed to build, or test failures reveal that something
wasn't built right you need to make changes to your Platform.pm.  One
possibility is to choose a base class from among the other supported
platforms.  For example, when porting Smolder to Mandrake Linux it might
be reasonable to start with this:

  use base 'Redhat9::Platform';

In place of this line:

  use base 'Smolder::Platform';

Now your build process will mimic that of another platform.

Failing that, you'll need to start overriding methods in
Smolder::Platform to adjust Smolder's build process.  For example, let's
say Apache::DBI won't build on your platform without /usr/local/bin
first in the path.  You could add an overridden build_perl_module() to
your Platform.pm:

  sub build_perl_module {
    my ($pkg, %arg) = @_;
    my $name = $arg{name};

    if ($name =~ /Apache-DBI/) {
        local $ENV{PATH} = "/usr/local/bin:$ENV{PATH}";
        return $pkg->SUPER::build_perl_module(%arg);
    }

    return $pkg->SUPER::build_perl_module(%arg);
  }

See the L<Smolder::Platform> documentation for a description of all
available methods.

=head3 Fixing Smolder

Another possibility is that Smolder itself needs work to perform
correctly on your platform.  This is particularly likely if you're
trying to add support for a new version of Perl or MySQL.

=head2 Wrapping Up

Each platform is allowed to have its own F<README> file.  This file is
copied into binary distributions for that platform.  For an example,
take a look at F<platform/Redhat7_3/README.Redhat7_3>.  This file is a
good place to describe any platform-specific setup needed to get Smolder
working.

When you're done porting Smolder, commit your work to SVN or send a
patch to the Smolder developer mailing-list.  Remember to add the
platform to the supported platform list in F<docs/ops_install.pod>.

